For this last exercise, we're going to
combine working
with the list and working with the
dictionary, to
create a list of words in a sentence, and
the number of times, the word appears in
the sentence.
So let's get started.
We're gonna call this numwords.py, the
first thing
we are gonna do is create our sentence.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
So our sentence is, now is the time for
all
good people to come to the aid of their
party.
The first thing we wanna do with that is
break the sentence into a list.
And there's a special string function to
do
that called split, which splits up the
words in
a string on a delaminator, in this case, a
blank space, and stores each word in a
list.
So, then, after we've got the words into a
list, then we need to sort the words.
There's a built-in function for doing that
called sorted,
which takes a list and returns a sorted
list.
So now we have the words in alphabetical
order.
Let's just look at the sentence as it is
in the list.
The next thing we need to do is create a
dictionary.
So we'll call it NumWords and it will
start out empty.
Then we're gonna write a four loop that
loops
over the list from the first to the last
element.
And for each word in the list if that word
is
in the dictionary already, then we're
simply going to increase the count.
And I forgot to mention that the key is
the word, and
the value is the number of times that word
appears in the list.
So if the word's already in the list, then
we're gonna increase the value by one.
Otherwise, if it's not in the list, set
the value for that word to one.
So to go over that again.
We check to see if the word from the list
is in the dictionary.
If it is, then we increment its value by
one, if it's not, then we set its value to
one and this statement right here will put
the word
in the dictionary to start with, if it's
not there.
And that should be all we have to do, so
now we can print out the
word list and count and for that we simply
loop over the keys, of the dictionary
like so.
So that should be all we have to do so
let's save the program.
Go back to our command prompt.
Here is our sorted list.
I see we have one little typo, so lets
fix that real quick and use space, right
there.
Now, lets try again, include the screen.
Here is our sorted list of words, and here
is our word count.
Notice that the only word that duplicates
is the word two, and the word the.
That's how we can take a string, turn it
into a list, and then store each
word in a dictionary, along with the
number
of times the word appears in the list.
That wraps up, this exercise.